Hello, everybody. This is Jim Skogard. I'm here with the very first inaugural episode of this is off
So I'm here with Deacon Taylor out at Denver, Colorado at the Central Wyoming Farron rodeo. Welcome to the show folks. Hi, Deacon
Hi Jim. Thanks for having me. It's a pleasure to be here. We can it's a pleasure to have you. I've been following you quite a
bit on Facebook and I kind of admire your your spunk and ambition. What what exactly are you up to? Well, so my lack of filters what you're probably
referring to. Yeah, a little bit maybe. Yeah, so what I'm up to is I've started an organization that we're loosely calling citizens United and our main focus is after the
Citizens United ruling that happened in 2010. Politics has just been inundated and flooded with money and I'm not okay with that. And I think most
people are not okay with that. Right. And when you say inundated with money, where where's that money coming from? Do you think? So lobbying groups, corporations and billionaires are all just basically buying our
elections and buying our politicians. And when you say buying our elections, how does somebody buy a boat? You know, I'm looking at like, no, I've never gotten any money. They're not
sending me a check. How does one buy an election? Well, we saw it with Elon Musk when he tried to go into Michigan and buy the court boat that they had going on up there. They just
flood the money with marketing and campaigns and propaganda in order to try to persuade the voters to vote the way they want. So if you have a propaganda, you said
propaganda, is that like a message that gets repeated over and over again? Can I have explained that a little bit? So propaganda from my perspective is a weaponized information system. Being former military, I know you were former National Guard as well. Taking a political message and rebranding it and refocusing it to accomplish an objective. That's propaganda. Is it, is it true? Sometimes there's threads of truth in it. Other times, it's completely made up. Completely made up. Have you,
run across a specific example that you, that comes to mind her? In current events, I'm watching the mayoral race in New York, and I'm seeing where they're labeling this guy in all kinds of ways that are not actually true. Oh, you bring up the word label. How to, you know, I was, I've done a little bit of writing on labeling and things like that. I don't know, maybe you can read something from my, one of my posters about labeling and how we, we kind of define that. So you got to point me in the right direction.
There's a lot of information here. So confirmation bias, we seek out information that agrees with us, the, the tribal cues, how we try to stay in line with the group that we align with.
Are any of those resonating with you? Do you see these in action ever? I see them in action a lot, especially in modern ideology or identity politics, rather.
People get so ingrained with this idea of tribalism that they can't seem to break away from it. Tribalism, that's kind of a good term. What does that mean?
From my perspective, it's, we all came from hunter gatherer tribes and fairly small groups moving throughout history. As far back as we can find in our, our evolutionary path.
In that process, you have a collective that you are safer being a part of than if you are ostracized or kicked out of.
And so people are very in tune with the idea of being in the group rather than out of a group.
So kind of an instinctual type of a development in our evolution perhaps. Very much instinctual. Like built in, nothing we can do about it, right?
Well, I mean, through our, our brain, we can actually process through things and evolve past that natural response, but it is very much ingrained in the, the baking of our DNA.
I see. And is actually pausing and thinking about something is that easy to do?
It's not for most people. Taking that breath is not something that we're really trained to do in our society.
How long do you think you should consider a divisive issue that you feel strongly about? If something wants to trigger you, how long should you pause before you respond, do you think?
I don't think there's a definite time frame per se, but the more triggered you are, the longer you should probably evaluate what's going on before you have a response.
I see. But most people's instinct is to label and dismiss. Would you say that's correct?
100%. So if we label and dismiss, how do we ever think about the divisive subject that's in front of us? How do we, how do we bridge that?
That's something that people don't typically do.
But if we were to, to try to get someone to consider that, how would we go about doing that?
What can, what's the message we get sent to the listener? What can I do? Suppose you have your, it's your family.
And suppose you, you're not going to disown your sister or your brother, and yet they're, they're triggering when, when, whenever you bring up a divisive topic, how do we, how do we get past that?
That's a really good question. I don't necessarily know how we solve that problem. I think you're more able to talk about that subject than I am.
But what I can see in our identity politics is there are family members that are absolutely ostracizing each other over the current administration alone.
Right? And I, you know, I bring this up because I've been labeled a rhino by my brother. And I'm like, really, you know, this is my brother.
How do I become a rhino to my, to someone in my, my immediate family, just because I espouse conservative Republican values.
I'm of this, the old school, Alan Simpson, Dick Cheney Republicans, that, that we didn't go out to, to hurt each other.
We don't play the game of fear and retribution and, and tow the party line. We, we, we tried to be conservative and we tried to encourage thought and, and, and all of a sudden, we become divided as a nation.
And, and is there a tool out there you think that we can use to help bridge that gap at all?
I think it's more a, we're going to have to have a lot of patience with the individuals that are so baked into their identity politics because they, they're not seeing anything outside of it.
And because of our technology, as you talk about a lot in your booth here, the, the internet and the AI platforms and everything, focus our content to where we only hear those repeated message and reaffirming what we actually think.
We get into these little echo chambers as we call them on the internet.
Echo chambers. So, what would you say if, if, is truth ever going to catch up with misinformation and lies and politics?
Unfortunately, lies travel like a, like a wildfire and truth travels like a trickle.
Right. I think Mark Twain had said something about it. I think he says, a lie can travel halfway around the world before the truth can get its shoes tied.
I, I think that's fairly close to it. I don't, I don't know the quote exactly, but you're right.
I think, I think that's pretty close. And you know, I, I've seen, I've seen it, I've seen the, the switches we've talked about labels a little earlier.
And I've, I've actually seen that here at the, at the Central Womming Fair in rodeo where we're talking and in a, a switch flips and somebody and they say,
oh, you're a rhino. And I'm like, what does that mean? I, I, I, when I open my conversation, I explain that I'm a conservative Republican and I have, I spouse conservative Republican values.
Yep. And if you're a Republican, that doesn't mean you're in name only. You're a Republican. You don't, and, and the idea that we can throw people out of the Republican party is, is ludicrous to me.
It's like, it's an assert, absurdity. And yet we do it. Yep. And so with that kind of divisive type, I don't know, language and, and viewpoints and, and we've got to, you know, ride for the brand that's in Wyoming.
You know, that comes from Owen Wisters, but you know what else comes from that same same article that I wrote. He said, your word is your bond.
Is that, do that, does that fit into the same, same, uh, topic, I guess? I would think so. Um, the problem that we have in politics, at least from my perspective is, you'll have a politician that says one thing in front of one audience and then they go to a different audience and they say something entirely different.
And how does that speak to character? To me, it's a lack of integrity. And I have no, no place in my world for the kind of people that have that ability to just sway from one,
one position to another. I see. So integrity and character would be important to you in, in your choices as, as for a representative.
Absolutely. That's one of the reasons why I got so actively involved in politics, because being former military, and I know you were former National Guard, integrity and all of those things are a sign of leadership.
And if I don't have somebody that I feel like I can actually trust and follow, I'm not going to trust and follow them.
Right. Well, thank you for your service, Deakin. And, you know, thank you for coming down and visiting with us.
Uh, you have anything else you'd like to share with the listeners on this inaugurable broadcast.
I think it's more important. Let's, let's talk about some of the things that has inspired you to run for office.
Right. And got you off the couch and got you involved in politics.
In September, 2024, I found myself talking to myself. And I thought, why am I talking to myself when I should be talking to other people?
So I started posting online and things like that. And I went on a journey and adventure with some, some folks that I later found out to be Democrats and Washington DC, I landed in DC.
They, they bought me a plane ticket. So I went and got on the bus with them. And we traveled across Pennsylvania and we traveled across Michigan.
And we ended up in Detroit at the end. And, and we talked to a bunch of Democrats. And I'm like, I'm a conservative Republican.
Why am I talking to Democrats? I went there to, to, you know, I thought, well, I was going to go down and see what's going on in conservative areas of the states.
But now we avoided those. I was like, well, it's a little disappointed, but I got, I got a viewpoint of, of the other side.
Yeah. And they're not the other side. They're us. And so I started forming the idea of creating this is us. And I know there's a TV show that's called this is us.
But I'm like, it's still us. So I'm going to use this as us as my platform and try to build a community that like my individual individuals that think alike and can, can, can bypass the bias in politics.
You're from Basin. So, so, did you grow up the Republican?
Well, I, I didn't know what exactly a Republican was, but I definitely grew up with the Wyoming conservative personality and, and the idea of small,
limited government and fiscal responsibility and all the espoused values of the Republican Party.
What I have found over the years is that depending on which part of the country you're in, Republican means something entirely different.
Right. So, a Republican in California is not the same as a Republican from Wyoming or Republican even from Texas.
Same thing with Democrats, a Democrat in California is not the same as a Democrat in New York. They are very different cultural entities, but they all seem to fall under that same umbrella even though they're not fully aligned in what they truly believe.
So, what does conservative mean to you?
Well, that's an interesting topic. So, when I think of conservative, I think of people trying to hold back progress at the end of the day.
And when I started to really study politics and depth, I got into studying what our founders were really about and the majority of our founders were very liberal and very progressive for their time.
If you think about what this country is and what it turned into, it was the most progressive liberal document that was ever written in the history of humanity.
But yet, for some reason, the conservatives that call themselves conservatives today are trying to say that that's a conservative document. It's like, no, for its time, that was more progressive than anything we'd ever seen.
So, it's hard to really pin that down.
It really is. And we shift the meaning of our terminology, don't we?
We do.
And now, to be conservative, if you need to follow exactly what the leadership is telling you to do without questioning.
Certainly in the MAGA crowd, that is what they are going for.
And, you know, that's the majority of folks in Wyoming who want to vote with the R.
You know, if you got the R in front of your name, 72% of the population identifies as R, that's the tribe that we're looking at.
And I identify as conservative, conservative R, Republican. I always have.
Now, you know, and I've been, I have not voted with my tribe, and I've been labeled for that.
And that is, it's unfortunate that we've come to that because the label allows us to dismiss the ideas that we should really take the time to consider.
We need to pause. I've studied this a little bit. We need to pause for six seconds when we run into a divisive topic that makes us want to flip a love, flip a switch and apply a label and dismiss.
We need to pause. And the time, the time frame that we need to pause is six seconds.
And the reason is the time between instinct and the actual thought process on average is six seconds in an individual.
So if you can, if you feel that switch, that label switch being flipped and you want to dismiss what you're hearing, I ask you to pause for six seconds.
I like that.
We begin, begin the process of actually engaging your brain. Did you know that the brain is occupies two percent of the body weight and consumes nearly 20% of our, our energy?
That I didn't know.
Yes. And so, so why do we use these, these tricks, these heuristics, these things that we were talking about earlier?
We use those because it's instinctual. We have to. We are, we are limited on how much energy we can spend in our brains. And our brains are, our curious, we're curious.
But when we find something that we disagree with or violates our worldview, we have labels for it. These are mechanisms of survival.
And so what's happening with echo chambers you mentioned earlier, silos, you know, our news, our choice of media.
We get the same messages echoed to us over and over again. And it becomes our reality.
And then when we, when we react, are we, we are introduced to something that is contrary to our worldview, then we label it and we have a mechanism to just dismiss without even considering.
So I'm, I'm actively encouraging folks to stop and we pause that six seconds and allow their brains to actually catch up with their instinctual reaction.
Yep.
And that's a hard thing to do. I've watched people here at the central warming fair in rodeo. They'll realize what I'm saying violates our worldview, that, that, that, and that switch flips.
Yeah. And it's almost instant.
And it is instant because that's how it had to be. When we were running from a tiger, we said tiger run.
Yep.
You know, now we say, oh, this is, this is not, I don't agree with this run, you know, shut off.
Yeah.
Don't consider because I'm going to, I'm going to have to waste some energy.
Anyway, that was kind of a long-winded explanation.
That's okay.
I hope you don't mind.
Tell me what, what, what got you out of the, out of the house today, come down here to, to support Jim Scoguard for sending in, in Casper, Wyoming.
Well, the real short simple answer is I care.
I care about what's happening in this country. I care about what's happening in our communities.
And I'm tired of sitting back waiting for somebody else to do something.
And so for the people that don't know this already, I ran for office in 2016.
We started the process in 2014 with my running mate.
And we actually built a third party in this country.
And we did it in about two and a half to three years.
And we were on the ballot.
And I think it was 19 states.
And then we had right in status for 25, or for a total of 25.
Really?
When you talk about being on the ballot, how come you couldn't get on 50 states?
That's a really long conversation.
But the short answer is to get on the ballot in the vast majority of states,
it is an astronomical lift and an astronomical ask.
In some states, it's monumental in the amount of money that it takes,
because you have to literally spend $250,000.
I think it was in one of the New England states.
Plus, you had to collect like 600,000 signatures or something like that.
Don't quote me on the exact numbers because that was over 10 years ago.
And I don't remember exactly what they were.
But it was unbelievable the things that were in place to prevent.
Anybody that wasn't a part of the DNR program to get on the ballot and actually be electable.
Really?
That sounds like we could, you know, as citizens, we could probably put something together
if we all joined together with a common cost to reduce those type of barriers to voices, basically.
It is.
And it's one of the things that I'm really passionate about is how do we fix our elections?
Because right now, if you don't have a voice in the primary process,
you essentially don't get a voice.
Because the primaries are where the elections are determined 97% of the time,
especially in the House of Representatives.
They know 97% of the time who's going to get elected before they even get to the ballot
between the gerrymandered districts and the ballot access requirements
whoever wins the R or D that is prominent in that district that they have chosen their voters,
that's who's going to win all the time.
That sounds like a topic for another day.
That's kind of an in-depth interview, but it's interesting to know that, you know.
You know, we have some new tools, Deacon, we have AI.
What do you think about using AI in politics?
Can it be used for good?
Can it be used for evil?
What do you think?
I think like any tool, it can be used either way.
I loved what you were talking about earlier using AI as a way to track representatives and senators
and seeing how they're voting.
I think you should speak more about that.
I think so.
I was talking to Deacon earlier about a platform that I'm building.
I call it, this is us.
You can find it at this is us.org.
This with a hyphen is with a hyphen us.org.
And on that platform, I show folks how you can select your hot button topics.
So when I say a hot button topic, like public land sales.
Right.
When these types...
It was huge in Wyoming.
Huge in Wyoming.
There was a lot of public land and we're really concerned about how that would be sold.
And in the bill that was before Congress, the big beautiful budget bill or whatever we wanted to call it,
it was there and it was hidden in the bill.
But it was, you know, we sussed it out.
But now with the website and the AI tools, we can list them as hot button topics.
So we just ask the AI to check each bill as it comes up for any of the topics that we've listed as our hot button topics.
We want to know about before that legislation goes up for a vote in either the Senate or the House.
And then what this website tool is designed to do is to send back notification to the constituency
and let them decide whether they're in favor of it, whether they're opposed to it,
or whether they need more information.
And that is aggregated back and sent back to the constituency again.
So the constituency knows whether they're...
If you feel strongly about a subject, you should know whether your underwater compared to the rest of the folks in our communities
or you're in the majority.
If you're in the majority, you might be okay with it.
But if you're underwater, you might want to go out and talk to your friends and make sure that they were participating in that discussion.
Because that discussion is important.
So we need to listen to our constituency and we have the tools to bridge.
Now we have the tools to bridge between the representative and the constituency.
And we can get that voice returned back to our constituency if we just...
Where it belongs.
Yeah.
You know, return that voice to the constituency and then the constituency can make their final decision.
And oftentimes, you know what I found at the fair, just talking about a hot button topic like land sales.
I found that if we did that, an interesting thing happens.
People come up with sides on both sides of the issue, floor and against.
For example, I mentioned that we needed to sell a piece of BLM land near Midwest Wyoming.
And we needed to sell a piece of other land near Jackson Hole, a stranger walks up to me here at the fair and says we needed to do that.
So I would be in favor of selling public lands and I'm like, well, to me that's not enough information
because you're not 3% of the public lands was in the bill I believe.
And that's not enough information for me.
I would want to know what exactly you're going to sell, who you're going to sell it to and how you're going to use the money.
And then once I knew that, I could make an informed decision.
But we weren't offered that type of information.
We were just told that this is in the bill and this is what our representatives were going to vote on.
And I honestly believe that, well, I know for a fact that that Luma San Barato voted it out of the Senate initially.
Hagamon returned a yes vote on this.
This very same thing out of the House before it got back to conciliation.
And then during the conciliation process, the senator from Utah that sponsored it with through the legislation.
So it got him off the hook.
But I honestly believe that all three of those of our representatives would have went against the will of the constituency and voted that into law.
And I think that is a horrible type of an idea when we have a hot button topic like that that we don't have a mechanism to return our viewpoint to our constituents when we build that we're being taken advantage of.
And you know what that speaks to?
That speaks to transparency.
And that speaks to accountability.
And that's something that I see as a little we have a little bit of a short coming in in our politics right now.
So we have technology that's available to us.
We all know what a website is.
We are kind of getting familiar with AI right now.
So we have basically real-time tools that we can use to visit with our constituencies as a representative.
And that's what I'm running on on this election cycle.
I've decided to run for Senate to help promote a platform like this to get the conversation started again to regain the conservative values that Wyoming has.
Yeah, I applaud you for getting off the couch and taking that on.
I will say that not only can AI be used for the constituents to know what's in a bill, but after listening to half of the Republicans and half the Democrats saying that they didn't know that that was in the bill, and some of the Republicans saying they wouldn't have voted for it if they would have known it was in the bill.
Help the senators and Republicans or the representatives can use AI to actually proofread a bill and know what's in it before you vote for it.
Well, I guess I'll send a message to my senators and representatives that they can certainly sign up and become a participant in this as us.
And check off the hot button topics that might even be important to them.
So they can have AI get a little message back from AI.
And this is, hey, this is in this bill.
You might want to check it out.
You might want to read what you're signing your name, too.
Yeah, before you put that old rubber stamp down on that piece of paper, go ahead and find out what it actually says.
And this is not a new issue, by the way, for those of you listening.
The Democrats, if you remember back in, I think it was 2018 or somewhere in there, they talked about the fact that they had to pass a bill to know what was in it.
What kind of malarkey is that?
That's a little concerning.
Yeah, a little concerning art.
The folks that we've elected to represent us, not knowing what they're doing.
That's what you're saying?
That's what they stated in their response to voting for legislative.
Because they're getting package of bills that are 1,000 pages, 2,000 pages, which, as a whole, another subject, these bills should not be that inflated.
But they're getting stacks of pages the night before they're supposed to vote on it, and they don't feel like they have enough time to actually read it.
So I'm going to interrupt here for just a second.
And I dislike the use of the word day and there.
Okay.
And the reason being is because when it all boils down to it, it's we, an hour.
We are the people who hold the power in our system of government.
So we need to accept the responsibility.
So when we try to use the pronouns, we, I, they are not necessarily, we unless we're using the royal sense.
When we try to push that off onto another group, we need to accept our little bit of ownership in this because this is our system of government that we're allowing to be manipulated and turned against us.
And, you know, I'm frankly, that's one of the reasons why I'm running for Senate right now.
It's because there's something going on that I, that violates my conservative values.
And that's, that's my voice is being supplanted by, by pundits and news anchors.
And, and I don't know where they all come from.
But there's a, there's, there's a huge community online that talk about, I don't know, reinforcing the, the echo chimped.
I, I guess I'm not, I don't really express this, but what do you think they can?
Well, so to your point, I absolutely agree.
We, we do tend to pass the buck a lot in our conversation.
And even without even realizing it in our language, but we are the fourth branch of government.
We as the citizens, that, that is our responsibility.
When the three branches no longer represent us, it's our job to hold them accountable.
And I think that's what we're seeing a movement of in this country right now is people that are stepping up and coming off the couch and saying,
I can't, I can't watch this happen anymore.
I, I totally agree. I think we each have to own our share of this issue.
And once we accept that inside ourselves and perhaps we can maybe start making a change.
I, I think I, I know we can start making a change.
How complicated it becomes and how many barriers are trying to be thrown up in our way to prevent that change.
That, that's a really, who knows kind of an answer, but I will say this.
The, the three and a half for so years that I spent traveling the country and talking to people.
We all came to a very similar understanding that our real problem is money and politics.
And how the politicians are being paid off by special interest groups, lobbyists, corporations, billionaires, and so forth.
And so that's really where I focus my time is, how do we fix that from the 2010 ruling that happened in the Supreme Court?
Because the average voter doesn't feel like they're being heard.
And so they're kind of taking a step back and just saying, well, if my vote doesn't really matter, then why even participate?
And I think that's the wrong answer.
We have to step forward and say, no, if my vote doesn't matter, how do I make my vote matter?
Right. And, and I think one of the big tools is, is, is our using websites and an AI to, to aggregate our voices into one so that it's harder to ignore us.
Yes.
You know, if you write a letter to your senator, you may get a response, you may get a canned response, or you may get crickets.
Yep.
And when we talk with one voice, it's easy to dismiss us.
But when we talk with the voice of the constituency,
dismiss us at your peril.
Yep.
Because we will let you move on to a new job.
And that's the power of us.
Yep.
And this is us.
So I think that I'd like to thank the listeners today, and there's, there's much more information at the website, and I'd like you to get involved.
If you, if you feel strongly about this, I'm looking for, for like-minded individuals to join me on my campaign trail.
I'd like this to have an entire wall of this fair next year, with just candidates that, you know, whether you're Republican or Democrat or independent.
I would like you to stand right here, as long as we're supporting bringing the voice back to the community, and having the communities voice heard in Washington, the state, your county, and your, your local government.
And I'd like to say thank you so very much, Deakin, for coming down to CS, and I look forward to visiting with you again sometime.
Thank you for having me, it was my pleasure.